[music]
All right guys. We're about an hour inland
from the nice beaches, the big hotels.
Coastal South Florida.
So out here today
we're going to go on an adventure
going through different towns.
From my research,
totally different identities.
And a part of the state, really,
most people don't
have an understanding of, including myself.
Looks like they're set up
for battle in Okeechobee.
They have a helicopter out there.
Some guns. A tank.
Okeechobee is known for ranching.
Right outside of town here,
bunch of ranches.
Bunch of big trucks.
"Combat Concepts and Fitness."
"The Studio Collective."
A bit of a Western look.
Park down the middle.
Saturday morning, little bit quiet.
Gator heads.
-Sunny, right?
-Yes.
How are things in Okeechobee these days?
The economy is fairly decent.
-This is like old Florida?
-Yeah.
Alligator heads.
Is there anything you won't sell, Sunny?
-I won't sell my soul.
-There we go.
Are many people
moving into Okeechobee right now?
There's a lot of people
coming from southern coasts.
From the east coast
are coming back up here.
Just cheaper, is that why? More space?
They're selling out and coming here
because it's a little cheaper.
I don't know this for a fact, they said
that this is originally made the town
to be the capital of Florida.
-Henry Flagler.
-Yeah.
That's why they put the park in there.
Railroad used to run through the park
years and years ago.
-Okay. Right here. And this is
the smack center of it all.
Basically, yeah.
[Peter] We got a little festival over here.
What's up, you guys? What's going on here?
It's for fathers to come
and have fun with their children.
-Oh, that's cool.
-Yeah.
I'm making a video on Okeechobee.
-Are you guys from here?
-Yeah.
-Seriously? Tell me about it.
What's going on in Okeechobee?
I think Okeechobee is growing a lot.
We got a Starbucks, which is new.
We've never had anything like that.
-You're fired up on Starbucks.
-Oh, yeah. We are.
No, we definitely are. [giggles]
It's a good place to grow up around.
Everybody knows each other.
-Sure.
-Yeah. And I honestly love it here.
So just a nice little Saturday community
sort of event set up.
Got the kids out.
This morning they had two 5K runs.
Rock Solid Christian Academy had one
and the Chamber of Commerce
had one down at the lake.
And then they're also doing
a fishing tournament.
It's hosted by the sheriff's office,
it's first responders.
-Nice. You guys love living here?
-Oh yeah.
-It's cool? Good for kids?
Quiet country little town.
Nice to raise a family in.
-Ranching the thing?
Big thing here.
Actually last week they did a cattle drive
where they spent like a whole week
moving cattle through the different ranches
and then came out on 441
and took all the cattle into the arena.
It's pretty cool.
-So when people think South Florida
they're not thinking this usually?
-Probably not.
-No, like Miami.
-Yeah.
-Big city.
This couldn't be
any more different than Miami.
-Way different.
Got the Historic Bank of Okeechobee.
Doesn't look like it's in business
but good job with the murals.
And the Okeechobee Bulls.
"Florida Cattle Ranching, 500 years.
In 1521 Juan Ponce de Leon
brought a small herd
of cattle and horses with him
on his second expedition to the new world.
Most people don't think of Florida
as a ranching place
but these interior areas…
well that's what it's about.
You can see they set up
this nice park in Okeechobee.
We're talking Palm Beach an hour away
and right down the road is this.
I just had my breakfast
but let's check out Gladys's Restaurant.
-You're not from here?
-I'm originally from Michigan. Yep.
What are you doing down here?
We fell in love with Okeechobee
when we were snowbirding
and we fell in love actually
with Okeechobee by coming here.
-Your daughter?
-Yes that's my daughter.
My name is Tina. We're the Russell family.
-The Russell family.
How long have you been here, Tina?
We've been here for eight years.
-Okay so Tina you're you're fully packed
and we're coming up on 12:00.
-Yes sir.
-And it's breakfast?
-It's breakfast or lunch.
Okay and so what made you
fall in love with Okeechobee?
Well we were snowbirds.
A young family, home schooled,
my husband owns a business
and we came here avoiding Michigan weather
and so we were camping at the KOA.
We actually came to this restaurant
as a family.
-Okay.
And I feel like it reflects
what Okeechobee is.
It's a small hometown.
Everybody's friendly with everyone.
-People are cool?
-Yeah.
We had breakfast here
and I said I want to raise our family here
and so spring, we actually bought this.
-So…
-Just this spring?
Yes sir. Yep.
-Any regrets?
-No, not at all.
Actually, it was… I grew up…
my parents owned a convenience store.
So when my oldest daughter
was starting to look for a job,
I knew what kind of character building
I wanted in my kids,
so I told my husband we need to find
a business that can create jobs for them.
So actually, all my kids
are working right now.
On Saturday, we all work.
Alright, take care. Have a good one.
Just talked to a former officer
from the coast,
who just moved out here,
didn't want to be on camera,
and he said he loves it.
So, that's what you're getting.
That's the vibe so far.
Country, slow,
people know each other,
Harley's cruising.
Okeechobee.
Old, small homes.
That one all grown in there.
Old trees with Spanish moss.
Those come alive in a couple months here.
It is dry season,
so this is about as dry as it looks.
Look at that beauty.
And then you see this.
So a lot of development going on out here.
Alright, so I guess we have
a youth rodeo going on out here.
[rodeo announcer on loudspeaker]
She's going after him.
Not giving up.
Not letting off.
She's got the lasso going.
I had no idea they started this young.
And I bet it's like hockey…
[rodeo announcer]
Where the top pros started
when they were like four years old.
And I'm sure it's a skill
that takes years and years to refine.
So, correct me out there,
for those that know the sport.
But I'm guessing these kids
are the ones that go pro eventually.
No one gets into it like they're 22.
-[papers rustle]
-Oh!
What's up guys?
Didn't see you there.
Just wanted to update you
on what's going on here.
That was pretty cheesy,
but sort of funny I think.
Just want to update you guys
on what's going on here.
Just submitted
the manuscript for my book.
Your Fellow Americans.
It's going to look like this.
Actually, it's going to be thicker.
But for nine months been writing the book.
It's about the stories of the videos.
It's about behind the scenes stuff.
It's about some of my story.
Great stuff about our country
for its birthday.
Now this goes live August 4th.
But you can pre-order now.
And it would be a great help if you did.
If you're going to buy the book.
Because the more pre-orders I get,
the more chances it gets into bookstores
like Barnes & Noble or airport shops.
Got the link down below.
You can pre-order there.
If you love the videos and you like to read
you're gonna love this book.
There's great stuff in here.
Even some of my
more rebellious stories back in the day.
I think you'll like those.
Right, Zaika?
Yeah? Okay. Cool.
Link down below.
Now back to the video.
Here we go. A lot more new builds.
Lot more development in the interior.
So Florida right now is
just north of 24 million people.
And people went to
the most desirable places in the beginning.
As in nice beaches with turquoise water.
I don't know. I think it's all
going to fill up eventually. Right?
All this interior.
You got the west coast that's busy.
You got the east coast that's busy.
There's a lot of open land here.
But I just think
in the next 10, 20, 30 years,
a lot of urban bridges will be made.
As low as $350 a month.
So there are a ton of these communities
around the shores of Lake Okeechobee.
I'd say these are permanent residents.
I think there's a combo in these parts.
Snowbirds coming down.
Maybe these RVs here.
There's a lady fishing there.
Much cheaper interior living here.
So I was on Zillow last night,
Okeechobee,
you get a house for $150,000 maybe.
$200,000, $300,000, $400,000,
gets you something pretty nice.
Compare that with the coast,
and it's night and day.
So the push to the interior in Florida
is a real thing.
And if you love fishing, that's I guess why
a lot of people are here too.
Little waterways in between each street.
The Buckhead Community Complex.
Glades County Sheriff's Office.
Look at that.
That's it. That's your Sheriff's Office.
These guys are everywhere.
So the city of Okeechobee comes right up to
the shore of Lake Okeechobee,
and not far from here
was the largest disaster
in Florida State history.
Over 2,500 people died in 1928.
When the hurricane happened.
The great, I believe it's called
the Okeechobee Hurricane.
The biggest one to date
as far as casualties.
And right after
they built this dike system.
It runs the whole perimeter of the lake.
It totally changed
the southern interior part of Florida.
This is an integral part of the Everglades.
It used to take roughly a year
for water to get from the south side here,
all the way out to the gulf.
Because all the dikes,
and the modern infrastructure
put into Florida.
That's all changed.
We're going to get south on the south side
here into the town of Clewiston.
And Clewiston is known for sugar.
The sweetest city in America they say.
And the sugar industry
has benefited greatly
from the taming of Lake Okeechobee.
[country music]
Check this out guys.
See how the town is designed here.
The street patterns.
Everything seems to be named sugar.
Sugar Park, Sugar Drive,
sugar this, sugar that.
Once the dike was put in
the irrigation was controlled.
The flooding was controlled.
Just prime territory for sugar cane.
So as you saw coming into town.
Just sugar cane fields
for as far as the eye could see.
This is ground zero for sugar in America.
Florida is the biggest sugar producer,
US Sugar, the biggest sugar company.
Most of this stays domestic.
A bit goes international.
But most domestic from my understanding.
And so you are tied into this town.
If you're eating sugar
which most of us are.
And sugar as we know can be found
in bread and pretty much everything.
Then Clewiston is the starting point
for the food you eat many a times.
You're drinking a soda today,
having a candy bar.
And here we go, we have…
You can see sort of a
master planned community a little bit.
You can see how this looks here.
I know we're probably getting
a red line through it,
but designed for one reason only.
For the sugar industry to flourish.
It's got a nice look to it here.
Big open spaces.
Palm tree lined streets.
I thought this town
was going to be beat up,
scruffy.
Definitely didn't see this coming.
Look at that beauty.
-You work in sugar?
-Yes sir.
So that's mostly everyone in town right?
Mostly yes.
That's probably the number one area
for employment here.
They got Walmart and stuff like that
but it's mainly US sugar.
And you can live in a nice home with
beautiful streets here working in sugar?
Yep. As long as you're dedicated.
[Peter] And so these sugar jobs
are just long running jobs?
Like people get in it and they stay in it?
Yeah most likely.
There's a lot of people that went there
right after high school.
And they're still there.
Now they have homes, families.
-So it's a good life out here?
-Yeah.
Now there's more risk of everything
else happening, you know, car accidents,
house burglaries,
or car getting broken into.
-And you're not feeling it out here?
It increases the risk
but here in a small town,
nothing.
At least for me.
-Good place for raising kids.
-Yeah.
Good place for raising kids.
[Peter] Sugar brings in money.
That's for sure.
It's got a lot of lobbying power
in the US government.
And it's got a lot of sway.
It's got a lot of weight.
And you could do a whole sugar story.
And I think many have.
But that's not really my wheelhouse.
I don't know enough about sugar
to speak credibly on it.
Other than the basics.
I've just taken a fascination
about the modern day company town concept.
I've done a couple of videos in Arizona
in the copper mining towns
that are completely owned by one company.
This obviously isn't that.
For example people can buy property here.
And in a company town you can only rent.
But there's something interesting
about the lifestyle of the people
who are all tied into one industry
to some degree.
Lake Okeechobee,
the second biggest freshwater lake
in the contiguous United States.
And many say, and the Internet says,
the best bass fishing of anywhere.
I'm sure that's up for argument.
But a lot of bass boats out here going out.
Lake's massive. Looks like an ocean.
You can't see the other side of it.
This part of town
is right next to Clewiston.
I think it's a different town,
Harlem.
We have a monster truck here, jacked up.
[diesel engine revs]
You can see the sugar plant
in the background there.
So I'm guessing all of these people here
also work for US Sugar… guessing.
There's not much information
on this town. I gotta say.
There's really not much.
Harlem… what's that?
A movie theater back in the day down there?
Total opposite
of the other side of the road.
Got a party lounge.
Yeah. A little rundown over here.
Camera down. Getting some hard looks.
That's alright.
Bar's on windows.
Wow. It just totally changed.
Harlem's got some nice homes
but some rundown stuff too.
So there's always more than you think.
That is for sure.
I'm an outsider not an expert.
Do my best to show you guys what I see.
Because with video making
I could just show the nicest homes
or I could just show
the most blighty stuff possible.
And that's what you'd walk away thinking.
And so I try to get absolutely everything.
[woman] We are a brand new
Jamaican restaurant.
-This is your father?
-Yes.
-Hey!
-Nice.
-He's the owner. We're both the owners.
So we're in Harlem right now.
-It's not Clewiston.
-No.
-It's a different town.
-Yes.
-Gotcha.
-Yes. We're more in the county. Yes.
Does everyone here work for sugar?
Most people do.
-That's the big employer. Everything.
-Biggest employer.
I want to say you worked for sugar. Yeah.
For a long time.
-28 years.
Are you still doing it?
-I retired.
-You retired.
-How was it?
-It was good.
-Good, good, good.
He supported our family very
well off of US Sugar. Yeah.
-So in a way it's like a company town.
Yeah. Honestly it is.
-Okay.
-It is. Yeah.
This is our restaurant.
We do have a lot of activities
going on the side.
Because this is where
people hang out a lot.
We know how to party here.
You're bringing
the Jamaican vibe to Harlem.
-Yes, we're bringing the Jamaican vibe.
-But you grew up here?
-Absolutely.
-Show us what's going on in here.
-This is our new establishment.
-Brand spanking new.
We renovated everything.
You okay.
-And so you're doing a lot to go.
-Thank you.
-Yes. Mm-hmm.
[woman] I'm going to see you later.
[Peter] Oxtail?
Oh yeah. Nice.
Making soup.
Jamaican style.
-You make this?
-Yeah.
Oh yeah.
That's plenty. That's plenty.
It smells delicious.
-It is delicious.
Can I give you the camera?
I'll show the food. Okay.
[woman] Sweet potato.
-Oh yeah.
Rich, rich, hearty broth.
What bone do you have in there?
-Oh, cow feet.
Cow feet? It's cow feet.
-Okay. Yeah.
-Yeah.
[woman] It's really delicious. Right?
The coconut milk.
Coconut milk. That's what's doing it.
Red peas.
-Yellow yam.
Sweet potato.
Mmm…
-You know what you're doing.
-Yeah.
Pro.
We have natural born
Jamaicans cooking this food.
Okay. Jamaican's finest.
Alright, everyone out there,
you gotta come here.
This is quite possibly
one of the best soups I've had.
-Thank you.
-Yeah, fact.
So good work on that. Thank you.
Actually, I'm digging this over here.
Driving through is…
You know, cameras,
people are always wondering, you know,
why do you have a camera up?
And it's understandable, fully.
But I told them what I was doing
and they are so cool
and invited me in
and showed everything off.
So, support these guys
if you're in the neighborhood.
It's called Island Vibes.
Interesting place,
then you have this new construction
Right up the road it seems like
this area is on the up overall I would say.
As in a feeling of more people
coming into town than leaving.
Look at those cool buildings.
We have a church here.
We have so much ground
to cover today, guys.
Unfortunately, we're just breezing through,
but at least it gives you
a bit of a flavor.
I just love showing juxtaposition.
First of all, you never know until you go.
I hear a lot from people like,
I don't have time to travel or the money.
But in the United States,
so many times if you just drive 45 minutes,
go into a new town, down a new street,
you run into an experience
that you wouldn't expect.
And so you don't need a lot of time.
You don't need a lot of money.
And then you come back
from a day like today,
thinking differently about your life,
about where you live.
I think in a positive way.
I think all of all of this stuff
goes positively.
And it's just good
to break out of the patterns.
Break out of going down the same roads,
going to the same places,
seeing the same faces, but actually
just a little trip like this today.
is an interesting experience.
Alright guys, we gotta get on the road
'cause got some ground to cover.
Next stop, Immokalee.
Totally different vibe
from my understanding.
And then the last destination
is gonna blow your mind.
Master planned place.
Religious community.
Like an oasis out in the middle of nowhere.
[country music]
So this is Immokalee and here is primarily
workers for all the agriculture
around here.
It's fields and fields forever.
And then you have Immokalee
right in the middle of it.
People think, including myself,
until I started researching this,
I just think Central California
fruits and vegetables.
And while it's the biggest player,
Central Florida is
another massive player for the agriculture.
Parks are busy.
BMX bikes, soccer balls.
I think it's roughly 70% or 80% Latin.
Maybe more.
Look at that. Beautiful.
Looks like we got
a little farmer's market here.
This is a cultural trip, that's for sure.
It's like true traveling.
Got a bunch of food carts here.
Catching the end of the farmer's market.
Bunch of tables set up for the day,
I'm sure.
[woman speaking Spanish]
Okay, the lady didn't want to be on camera,
but she says Saturday's a big work day.
So this doesn't really come alive
until nighttime.
And then Sunday, it's just wild here.
It's totally busy.
But you can see there's just oils,
bananas, produce,
toilet paper.
Whatever you need to live
seems to be out here.
And she said it's mostly Mexicans
and Guatemalans out here.
So unlike most of Florida,
or at least South Florida,
I'd say the majority you see
are Cubans or Venezuelans.
But interior here, the farm workers,
not really any Cubans or Venezuelans.
Immokalee.
Definitely a different Florida.
I mean, if we're going to compare this
with what's on the coast,
literally, I don't know, an hour away,
it's two different universes.
Show you guys some back roads here,
some neighborhoods.
And know it's wild.
I just found this property on Zillow.
It's a piece of land.
And it's going to blow your mind
how much it costs.
Housing's tight here.
It's literally just a small town.
Nothing around it on its own.
So real estate is a premium here.
Even though looking at some of
these places, you wouldn't think so.
Alright, let me see if I can find it here.
I think it's up here.
But you know what I like
in this neighborhood?
I gotta say, the streets are a bit alive.
Like, there is life to the place.
I'm sure everyone knows everyone.
They all work together,
live together, go to school together.
Shop together.
It's sort of pleasant walking around,
actually.
Alright guys, here it is.
Next to this home.
Right here.
This plot,
which is about a third of an acre.
Guess the cost.
One third of the acre.
With the roosters.
Spanish moss.
Immokalee
$180,000.
You heard me right.
$180,000 for that piece of land.
So how much is that place
with a house on it?
That is wild.
So I read they are really packing in
a lot of these homes.
Because rents are in demand.
There's no new building, it looks like.
And there are plenty of jobs.
So there you go.
If you're ready to make the move.
I just found it for you.
That's wild, huh?
$180,000 for that?
And just a lot of places like this.
Small, simple places.
And so I read online
that the ag products from this region
go to 162
countries and territories.
A lot of the ag here feeds
the United States too.
A lot of tomatoes out this way.
So when you sit down tonight,
these workers here
might have picked
the tomatoes on your salad
or the pasta sauce
that you're enjoying your spaghetti with.
Isn't it wild how that works?
We're all connected.
Alright, what's this guy selling here?
Let's get some of this.
Is that basil?
[Spanish]
-Basil?
-No.
I don't know the name. [Spanish]
-How much does it cost?
$3 each.
Okay. Let's do it.
-Uno.
-Okay.
[Spanish]
Mexico, Oaxaca.
Oaxaca. Beautiful.
Oh, nice.
-Gracias.
-Okay.
[Spanish]
Look at that. Three dollars.
Okay, we have the Mexicana store.
Looks like a little village market.
Got some roosters under there.
Got some good hats for the fields.
Made in Mexico.
I'm sure the workers come in, get the food,
go eat out there at the tables.
Let's see what we got for prices here.
One and a half pounds, $20.
That's pretty good. Wow, that's only $6.25.
$3.23, that is amazing.
That is cheap.
$5.05 for all of this, look at that.
2.67 pounds.
2.67 pounds. It's got the spice on it.
$5.05, that is unbelievable.
Giorgio doesn't want to be on camera,
but he said I could ride his four-Wheeler.
Thank you, bro. Appreciate it.
Yeah. There we go.
[engine cranks and starts]
This place is great.
A lot of people don't want to be on camera.
It's too bad. I was just in that shop,
and they were so cool,
and I couldn't get them on camera.
Same with Giorgio,
the dude's four-Wheeler I'm on.
He said, go take it for a spin.
Thanks, man.
So you work at the radio station?
-I work. Yes.
-Okay. How's the town these days?
Good people. Hard work people.
-Yeah.
And it's a nice place.
They have good players here as well.
-Players?
-Yes.
For what? Football?
They do, I don't know the name in English,
but it's like soccer.
-Yes. Okay.
-I think soccer.
-Okay. So most people here
are working in agriculture.
Yes.
It's amazing how they can, you know,
keep this town or the country alive
because fruits, vegetables,
and everything that is growing here,
they go everywhere.
You know, it's family people.
They are not criminals.
They are really good people.
The community is really, really good.
So, mostly Mexicans?
Mexicans, Guatemala…
-No Cubans, no Venezuelans?
-Some Cubans.
-Okay.
-I am Dominican.
-You're Dominican? Nice. Cool.
-And they have Haiti people from here too.
-Okay.
They could work here as well.
-It's a whole other Florida out here.
Totally different.
-It is.
-It's cool though. Well, thank you.
You're welcome. Nice to meet you.
-You're very sweet.
-Thank you.
Who do I pay here?
Um, to…
[Spanish]
I'm gonna buy the Miss's fruit too.
-Oh, no, it's not necessary.
Yeah, I want to.
-Thank you.
-Nice to meet you.
-Take care. You too. Bye-bye.
Bye-bye, sir.
Here we go.
Mmm.
Guys, I would love to stay in this town
and get a good Mexican meal
'cause I'm sure there are plenty here.
But we got to get our last stop
before sundown.
So I'm tempted but,
I'm gonna settle for fruit right now.
And like that woman said,
Mexicans or Latinos here, they work.
It's true. I mean, straight up.
Thank God.
You know, they have a work ethic.
We would not have fruits and vegetables
and half the things we eat
without that labor force.
And what's interesting
about that labor force,
I don't know how things are working here.
So I'm not going to
speak about it
when I don't know the full truth.
But for example,
the US government has the H2A visa.
That's a temporary
sort of farm agricultural worker visa.
I believe we're giving out
more than 400,000
of those a year right now.
It's gone up in the last couple years.
So we are giving more of those visas
for people to work here.
Now, permanent residents,
impossible to know.
But there is that system
that doesn't get reported on so much.
As in field workers, farm workers,
totally here legally,
and getting that H2A visa.
I wish there was more of that.
I wish there were these people…
they come, they work hard,
and if they add to society, to the country,
there has to be a limit, obviously.
But there has to be a pathway of some sort.
And the H2A visa,
I think, is one way to do it.
And I need to dig into that more.
Like what visas the US government
is giving to, say, more permanent
workers that come up here and work.
I don't know.
It's a topic to explore for sure.
Fruit's good.
Let's go.
[country music]
The camera doesn't fully give this justice.
But we're literally 10,
okay, max 15 minutes
away from Immokalee
to here.
Ave Maria.
Founded in 2007 by, get this,
by the former founder of Domino's,
Tom Monaghan.
So he sold his business,
most of it I believe.
And wanted to start a town.
So this is a new town.
Built around the Catholic University here.
This is like a self-contained,
removed from everything,
really posh,
clean,
well manicured world.
This is really a trip today, you guys.
Just the differences
of each town's identity.
Let's try to get as much in
before it gets dark.
Okay, I pulled this up.
"Ave Maria was built on purpose.
A planned community
designed around faith,
order, and separation
from the surrounding region.
Intentional social architecture
to reinforce shared moral framework
in a space free from
outside cultural interests."
So I think they accept everyone here.
It's not fully Christian.
But they wanted to create something that
revolves around the faith.
So that's why you have that
right in the center of town.
Roughly 6,000 to 7,000 people living here.
And it's growing.
Golf cart culture.
It's got a little bit of The Villages feel,
first impression, but different.
Let's walk around.
So I guess this is
all the university right over here.
The university has roughly
1,100 to 1,300 students.
And also some good high paying jobs.
Because you have professors working there,
living here.
Here we have some of the donors.
Lights hitting it perfectly.
[choir singing]
Peaceful.
Nice. Beautiful church.
For a modern church.
There are a lot of languages here too.
They have a Mexican restaurant here.
I'm going to say
the best Mexican's down the road.
Melt.
Vicky Bakery.
A bunch of new shops.
Founded in 2007.
That's an amazing feat.
That's a lot of construction
to make all that happen.
So, Catholic.
Want to be around a lot of other Catholics.
Makes sense.
Living in a place like this.
I'm sure it's a cool community out here.
I'm sure there are events and whatnot.
You can imagine very safe.
Don't see an edgy element to this place.
It's maybe boring for the youth.
Definitely see that.
But I'm sure there's
a bunch of stuff going on.
Just not getting it at the right time.
It's Saturday.
So that's Saturday mass going on there.
Alright, let's cruise.
[man] Thank you.
Polite kids. Said thank you.
That's nice. Good parenting.
I was at Whole Foods the other day,
and I stopped for these
young teenage girls.
Didn't have to. There's no crosswalk.
And no thank you at all.
They were probably dressed in
a thousand dollars worth of clothes each.
So it's nice to see that.
The thank you from the youth.
All comes from the parents.
Alright guys.
So lot of roundabouts here.
And it just looks like
a lot of that.
Lot of homes, waterways.
Nice lake.
I mean if predictability, and safety,
and I guess knowing what's
around every turn is your thing,
then this is the place.
[Peter] So you said they're gonna put
a thousand more homes in?
-A thousand more homes going in.
-Oh wow.
Yeah, so it's expanding rapidly.
-How many years have you lived out here?
-Seven years.
Seven years Christmas.
-Do you like it?
-It's okay.
We lived in South Bend, Indiana.
-Okay.
-We had four distinct seasons.
We used to enjoy that.
Yeah, Florida summers are brutal
but what about the community?
-Do you like the community?
-The community is okay.
-Yeah.
-Okay.
-I'm not Catholic.
-You're not Catholic?
-Okay.
A lot of people aren't Catholic.
-So we actually attend church in Naples.
Okay. What denomination are you?
Well, we're in a Baptist church.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
Good place for kids?
Yeah, very good place for kids.
This is one right here.
-This is Junior? Nice.
-This is my grandson.
-Can I have some juice?
-Yes, you can.
That's my grandson.
-Your neighbors are from where?
-Turkey.
These people were from…
Been here for two years now.
They were from Columbia.
-But people come here
because they want safe, clean…
You'll notice as you
travel the community,
you'll see some police cars from Miami.
From Dade County and so on.
I've spoken with several of them.
They said it was better on me to go to work
in Miami and know my family is safe here
in Ave Maria.
-Are you serious?
-It's about thinking.
[Peter] Yeah, you just see
a bunch of kids out and about.
You see a lot of garage doors open.
Oh, there it is.
Just what he was saying, police.
That's funny. He called it.
We're a few streets away, too.
Miami Dade.
Guy drives, I'm guessing, two hours
just to get into Miami
and keep his family out here.
So wow. Look at this.
This is massive.
Well, it seems like they're not
the only ones that want this.
This seems to be really growing.
Oh, that's cute. What is this guy?
-Carmelo.
-Carmelo. Puppy, yeah?
He's a Toy Maltese.
He's only nine weeks old.
-So you all met each other…
-Yesterday. We were walking.
Okay.
And they were outside.
-And how long have you lived here for?
-Since May of last year.
-Your daughter?
-Yeah. One of them.
-You guys liking it?
-Mm-hmm. We like it.
We love it.
We used to live in Fort Lauderdale.
Couldn't find a house for
like less than a million dollars,
so we just came out this way.
Okay. What are houses for out here?
Depends. Like, um,
depends how big, how small, but like mine
basically was like around 550.
Okay.
But I have a 4-3 with a pool.
And you can't get that out there.
These houses down here on this side,
they got them for 398 I think.
And they're three bedrooms,
but they don't have pools.
-Okay.
But it's pretty affordable.
What are we doing? We doing a picture?
-I want to do a picture.
-Okay, let's do it.
How are we doing this?
Here.
-Get on this side.
-Puppy in the middle?
-Puppy in the middle.
All right, guys, what a day today.
And I could have spent a day
in each one of these towns,
but I wanted to show you the differences
between the towns here
in South Central Florida,
ranching up in Okeechobee,
Clewiston, straight up sugar industry.
Immokalee,
produce, labor.
Ave Maria,
faith based. Here for purpose.
People from all over the world.
So quite a mix of places.
In a I'd say pretty much unknown
part of the state and the country.
So thanks for coming along
on that journey, you guys.
Until the next one.
[country music]